hi I'm Eric and I'm gonna talk a really
fast so I have a software that I want to
build that's why I hate building
software I want to use software but
sometimes that means I have to compile
software sometimes that software isn't
done it doesn't quite do what I need so
I actually mean that I need to patch and
then compile and then build and then
maybe use software and after I've done
all that work maybe I need to share that
software so anyone else can do it I did
this gets into the domain sometimes
known as package management there are
many different ways to go about package
management this is roughly the fourth
lightning talk at the camp about package
management so this was going to aim to
be the most out to space the most deeply
reconsidering take on this topic that
you'll hear today and try to reach a
little bit of a different place by going
just to the most meta forum instead of
the concrete's so yeah
so despite some of the first words I use
being building what's tricky isn't
building we have build tools we have
lots of build tools we have more build
tools and I could possibly list I didn't
even try we've had build tools of
various kinds for decades building isn't
the problem what's tricky is integrating
what's tricky is figuring out how to
connect different build processes
together what's tricky is figuring out
how to compose whole systems out of this
so in figuring out how to integrate
things I think it's sometimes best to
figure out how to break that problem
down first so what is it build I would
say and these are all just opinions by
the way but we'll explore more opinions
later a build involves a bunch of files
going in conveniently we have a file
system called ipfs which is really good
at identifying files eventually some
files come out and some sort of an
action takes place in the middle
whatever that is so one idea that I'd
like to throw out is maybe maybe we
could build better ways of doing builds
and better ways of integrating them if
we did something like this with IP LD
our interplanetary linked data format
because what would that imply
it would mean we could take a hash of
this whole instruction of a build and we
could go from content-addressable just
addressing files by the content hash to
computation addressable this could be a
primary key into like a totally
different way of doing computation you
could use this for lots of things it's a
very useful building block to making
larger more interesting systems you can
share complete instructions for a build
you can rebuild things later you could
share these for bug reports so they're
context-free that's a really useful
thing and all inclusive good for bug
reporting good for audit logs good for
does this go backwards no no how to go
backwards having output hashes at the
end of a process oh there we go yeah if
you have the hash of a file system that
comes out of a build it's really really
useful for checking reproducibility as
opposed to assuming that processes are
deterministic and reproducible so this
is a general forcing function for sanity
this helps us build sane systems but
this was just breaking down the concept
of a build so now let's try to integrate
again let's try to build a bigger system
with that it's really useful to be able
to address builds that we've already
drafted once but this doesn't solve a
lot of problems this just gets started
nobody likes copying and pasting hashes
and in order to build larger systems
that have more than one part of a build
in them or different build tools
different compilers whatever we'll need
a way to describe multiple steps of
builds and describe their relationships
in advance and this will be just
essential to any kind of productivity so
describing multiple steps and relating
them in advanced means we can't use
hashes we don't have a thing to hash yet
so we have a naming problem hooray
distributive naming problems are hard I
think everybody in the room knows that
anybody who's wrestled with it has as
known so we tried to integrate a little
bit and we got to a naming problem so
let's try to break it down again
maybe if we break down the problem
enough it will get easier now this is
going to go very medam I'm barely
talking about package management all for
a moment here
there are lots of different kinds of
naming sometimes I use naming for
labeling sometimes I'm going to want to
name nodes in a graph just so that I can
identify different nodes even when
they're topologically identical
sometimes when I say naming I mean I'm
going to look for updates the latest
thing with some name sometimes I want to
use naming with some sort of prefix
pattern just to do grouping and
categorization sometimes I'm trying to
use it for reputation all these are very
different user stories and maybe by
breaking them down well some of these we
might find to be a lot easier for
example naming just to label things can
still be an immutable thing you can make
immutable name references in some
context if you want to label stuff in a
graph you only need unique names within
the context of the graph so some of
these problems are much easier to solve
than others some of these problems are
also interesting because they entangle
application logic such as the concept of
updating package managers it turns out
have different opinions about how to get
up to date on things so I think this is
a general lesson for distributed system
design anytime you can turn a
distributed naming problem into a
locally scoped naming problem do it it's
much easier then come back to it and try
to make it composable so for example I
might make some locally scoped naming
system to connect a bunch of things as a
graph of builds and it would be easy I
just use some locally unique name but to
integrate into bigger systems again part
of the problem becomes collaboration
with other people and now it's not so
easy but we have this full stack of
constant addressable things we have this
whole protocol called IP LD which is
about helping us make other
content-addressable messages easily so
what happens if we take this concept of
locally scoped names in some
contextually limited size of graph and
who just keeps slowly expanding that
definition of locally scoped and we make
message passing systems between
different scopes which are themselves
all content addressable messages so we
can continue building bigger and bigger
Merkel trees which are all immutable in
some scope but give us functionally the
kind of composable in
readable naming that we want I'm almost
out of time already but you can talk to
me later or find lots more Docs and
prototypes of systems at these links
these are some tools for building
language agnostic build integration
systems
[Music]